Network configuration

The

rc_visard

 offers several options to connect and configure it to your network
setup as shown below. In this tutorial we show how to properly
configure the

rc_visard

's IP settings as well as optimizing the host PC's network settings
for the high data throughput.


Note: Generally, we recommend to connect the

  rc_visard

   directly to the host PC whenever possible because configuration,
  troubleshooting, and network optimization involves maximally two
  devices and not a larger network with possibly many switches, a DHCP
  server, and the like.

Before we start

Before going through this tutorial, the following prerequisites should
be met.

-[ Have the

rc_visard

's serial number at hand ]-

It is an 8-digit number to be found on the device and will be referred
to as "rc_visard_id" in the remainder of this tutorial.

-[ Clarify network setup ]-

Check the host's network settings, i.e. IP address and sub-net mask.
If you want to connect the rc_visard to the host via Link-Local please
make sure the host is configured accordingly.

Is the rc_visard directly connected to the host or via a larger
network?

If connected to a larger network, contact your system administrator
and check:  Is a DHCP server available in the network? In some
networks, the DHCP server is configured so that it only accepts known
devices. In this case, the sensor's MAC address (to be found on the
device's label) needs to be configured in the DHCP server.  What kind
of network switches are installed in that network? The switches should
support jumbo frames and have a high enough switching bandwidth to not
drop packets.

-[ Download and install client software on host PC ]-

Download and install Roboception's discovery tool rcdiscover-gui.

Optional: Download and install Roboception's command line GenICam
tools.

Connect and discover the rc_visard

Once the

rc_visard

 is connected to the host PC -- either directly or via a larger
network -- run Roboception's discovery tool. A window will open
showing all

rc_visard

s that were discovered in the network similar to the figure below.


Note: You can re-run the discovery process anytime by clicking the
  "Rerun Discovery"-button.

Note: The discovery tool is the central troubleshooting tool for
  checking whether Roboception sensors are properly connected and
  reachable by the host PC or not. For a detailed description, please
  refer to the

  discovery tool's manual page

  .

If the

rc_visard

 is reachable, a simple double-click on the respective row opens the
sensor's Web GUI which let's you explore and visualize the data from
the device. In this case, you can fully access the

rc_visard

 already such that no further configuration of the network settings is
required and you can skip the next section. You might still change the
network settings according to your needs as described in

Configure the rc_visard's network settings

 or directly head over to

Optimizations for high network loads

.

Otherwise, as a first step to properly configure the

rc_visard

's settings according to your network setup, you need to make it
reachable from the host by assigning a temporary IP address as shown
in the following.

Assign a temporary IP address

The discovery tool can be used to

temporarily

 configure the

rc_visard

's IP address and sub-network. This is particularly useful for making
a misconfigured device temporarily reachable in the local network
again.

In the rcdiscover-gui click and select the row representing the non-
reachable sensor.

Click the Set temporary IP address-button. The respective dialog
window pops up.  Make sure the correct sensor is selected.  Change the
IP and sub-net settings. As the goal is to temporarily put the sensor
and the host into the same network, these temporary settings need to
be chosen according to the host's IP address and sub-net.  Click the
Set temporary IP address-button and follow the dialog.

Back in the main window, start a new discovery by clicking the Rerun
Discovery-button.

The

rc_visard

 should now be discovered with the new, temporary IP address, and it
should be reachable now.

Note: Since these settings are applied only

  temporarily

  , any reconnect -- particularly any reboot -- will set the

  rc_visard

   back to the former network settings.

Configure the rc_visard's network settings

In general, two options exist to

permanently

 configure the

rc_visard

's network settings:

   the rc_visard's Web GUI, and

   any configuration tool compatible with GigE Vision® 2.0.

We will give examples for both options below.

Note: As a preliminary for both options the sensor

  must be reachable

  . If it is not, please follow the instructions

  above

   to obtain temporary reachability by means of the discovery tool.

Option 1: The rc_visard's Web GUI

The easiest way to access and permanently change the

rc_visard

's network settings using a graphical user interface is its Web GUI.

The first step is to verify on the System ‣ Firmware & License page of
the Web GUI that the

rc_visard

 is running the latest firmware (version 22.04).

The network settings can be found on the System ‣ Network Settings
page. Here, you can easily check the currently applied IP
configuration method and change the network settings according to your
local network.

Note: While the Web GUI provides an intuitive graphical user
  interface to configure the network settings, in the back-end, it
  uses the

  rc_visard

  's

  REST-API

  . This offers programmatic access to the full network configuration
  and can be used also by developers.

Option 2: Configuration via GenICam/GigE Vision®

The

rc_visard

 complies to the

GigE Vision

® 2.0 standard, i.e. any configuration tool compatible with GigE
Vision® can be used to configure the device and particularly its
network settings. In the following we give two examples.

Roboception's command-line tool gc_config

The command line GenICam tool "gc_config" gives full control over the

rc_visard

's network settings and lets you configure any IP address, sub-net and
gateway according to your network setup. It is part of Roboception's
open-source convenience layer "rc_genicam_api", which can be
downloaded free of charge for Windows and Linux from

https://github.com/roboception/rc_genicam_api/releases

.

-[ Example 1 - Static IP address ]-

The following command configures an exemplary, static IP address of
192.168.188.10 and a sub-net mask of 255.255.0.0, where "rc_visard_id"
is to be replaced by the sensor's serial number or user-defined name.

   gc_config <rc_visard_id> -d 0 -p 1 -i 192.168.188.10 -s 255.255.0.0

-[ Example 2 - DHCP (fall back to Link-Local) ]-

If a DHCP server is available, "gc_config" lets you enable the

rc_visard

's auto-configuration option via:

   gc_config <rc_visard_id> -d 1 -p 0

If no DHCP server is found by the device, it falls back to Link-Local.

-[ Example 3 - Link-Local only ]-

If you explicitly want to connect via Link-Local, "gc_config" lets you
disable both the static IP option and the DHCP option via:

   gc_config <rc_visard_id> -d 0 -p 0

-[ Reconnect the

rc_visard

 and confirm proper network settings ]-

In order to actually apply the changed network settings, the

rc_visard

 needs to reconnect. Here several options exist:

   Initiate a reconnect via the discovery tool:  In the rcdiscover-gui
   click and select the respective sensor.  Click Reconnect rc_visard.
   The reconnecting dialog window pops up.  Make sure the correct
   sensor is selected, click the Reconnect-button and follow the
   dialog.

   Physically disconnect and connect the rc_visard from and to the
   network.

   Any re-boot, e.g. by power cycling, will also cause the sensor to
   reconnect.

After reconnecting, you might check via the discovery tool that the
desired settings are applied and that the

rc_visard

 is reachable from your host.

The Baumer IpConfigTool

For changing the network configuration via GenICam using a graphical
interface, we recommend using the IpConfigTool that is part of the

Baumer GAPI SDK

. The

SDK

 can be downloaded free of charge for Windows and Linux from

http://www.baumer.com

.

After start-up, this tool scans for all available GigE Vision® sensors
on the network. All

rc_visard

 devices can be uniquely identified by their serial number and MAC
address, which are both printed on the device.

Select the rc_visard for which the network settings should be changed.

In the Config options change the network settings according to your
local network and press the Set button to commit the settings to the
device.

In order to actually apply the changed network settings, the rc_visard
needs to reconnect which can be done by means of the rcdiscover-gui or
by simply physically disconnecting and connecting the rc_visard from
and to the network.

Optimizations for high network loads

Note: It is strongly recommended to not skip this section as most
  default settings will lead to improper network load. A typical
  indicator for this is a "received incomplete buffer" warning issued
  by the GenICam driver.

When working with the

rc_visard

, image data streaming causes high load in the network. In order to
illustrate this, the following table shows the required bandwidth in
percent, related to Gigabit Ethernet (i.e. 1 GBit/s).

Exemplary workloads on 1 GBit/s Ethernet          Image type  Image
size  FPS  % of GigE Bandwidth  Left or right  1280×960 pixel  25 Hz
24.6 %  Color information (U/V)  1280×960 pixel  25 Hz  12.3 %
Disparity, Confidence and Error  640×480 pixel (H)  3 Hz  3.0 %
Disparity, Confidence and Error  320×240 pixel (M)  15 Hz  3.7 %
Disparity, Confidence and Error  214×160 pixel (L)  25 Hz  2.7 %

For instance, streaming left color image at 25 Hz and Disparity at 3
Hz already requires more than 39.9 % network bandwidth of a 1 GBit/s
Ethernet connection.

We therefore strongly recommend the following network optimizations if
applicable.

Enabling "jumbo frames"

So called

jumbo frames

 are UDP packets with more than the default 1500 bytes of payload. In
network devices often this setting is referred to as

maximum transmission unit (MTU)

.

Please adapt the MTU of all network devices the data packets are
routed through. The maximally supported MTU by the

rc_visard

 is 9000 bytes and is automatically negotiated on the device when
connecting via GenICam. Hence, when directly connecting the

rc_visard

 to the host, you only need to adapt the network interface card's
settings of that PC. However, if other network devices such as network
switches are involved every individual device on the route needs to
support jumbo frames and needs be configured properly. Please contact
your network administrator to enable jumbo frames on them.

In the following we show examples how to set the host's MTU to 9000 in
Linux and Windows 10.

Ubuntu

-[ Temporarily ]-

Enter the following command in the terminal.

   ifconfig <interface> mtu 9000

-[ Persistently ]-

Open the network manager

Select interface and edit settings

On "Ethernet" tab, change MTU to 9000

Windows 10

In Windows the settings for jumbo frames can be found in the advanced
settings of the network driver:

   Open "Network Connections"

   Right-click on the network interface

   Choose "Properties"

   Click "Configure"

   On the "Advanced" tab, choose "Jumbo Packet"

   Select "9014 Bytes"

Increase the Receive Buffer Size (Linux only)

Another helpful option is to increase the network stack's receive
buffer size. Temporarily, this option can be set and tested via

   sudo sysctl -w net.core.rmem_max=33554432

To make the changes persistent place a file "10-gev-perf.conf" with
the line

   net.core.rmem_max=33554432

into the directory "/etc/sysctl.d".

Troubleshooting

The rc_visard is not discovered

   Please make sure, the device is actually connected to the network.

   For discovery across sub-nets under Linux reverse path filtering
   must be disabled. Using the debian package for Roboception's
   discovery tool "rcdiscover-gui", this is or should have been done
   automatically during installation.

How to reset the rc_visard network settings to factory defaults?

   The reset mechanism is only available for two minutes after a
   device startup. Hence, please reboot sensor if required, e.g. via
   power cycling.

   Open the rcdiscover-gui, wait until the sensor is rebooted, which
   is indicated by a green LED, and start a discovery by pressing the
   Rerun discovery button.

   Click and select the row representing the respective device.

   Press the Reset rc_visard-button. The resetting dialog window pops
   up.

   Click the Reset network-button and follow the dialog.

   Back in the main window, click Reconnect rc_visard. The
   reconnecting dialog window pops up.

   Make sure the correct sensor is selected, click the Reconnect-
   button and confirm.

   Close the reconnecting dialog window.

   Start a new discovery by clicking the Rerun Discovery-button.

   Note: A successful reset is indicated by a white status LED
     followed by a device reboot. If no reaction is noticeable, the
     two minute time slot may have passed, requiring another reboot.

   Now, the

   rc_visard

    follows its

   default automatic network configuration routine

    and should either have an automatically assigned IP address from
   the DHCP server or a Link-Local address 169.254.x.x.

The rc_visard has a Link-Local address but is not reachable

   If you want to connect the

   rc_visard

    via

   Link-Local

    and the discovery tool shows the sensor to have a proper Link-
   Local address 169.254.x.x assigned but still is not reachable,
   please check the network settings of your host. Most probably it is
   currently not configured for Link-Local connections.

A DHCP server is available but the rc_visard falls back to Link-Local

   In some networks, the

   DHCP

    server is configured so that it only accepts known devices. In
   this case, the sensor’s MAC address (to be found on the device’s
   label) needs to be configured in the DHCP server. Please contact
   your network administrator.

I get many "incomplete buffer"-warnings

   This indicates that data packets got lost in your network setup and
   could not be re-sent by the

   rc_visard

    fast enough. Please follow the instructions

   to optimize network settings for high loads

   .
