Obtain dense depth images with the rc_randomdot projector

This tutorial shows how to set up the

rc_visard

 with the

rc_randomdot projector

 to increase the density of depth images, as shown in

Fig. 12

. This is particularly recommended for objects and workspaces with
little or no visual texture.


Note: This tutorial assumes that the previous tutorial

  Tuning of image parameters

   has been completed.

Before we start

Before going through this tutorial, the following prerequisites should
be met.

The rc_visard has the latest firmware image and the rc_visard's
license includes the IOControl module. This can be verified on the
System ‣ Firmware & License page of the Web GUI.

The rc_randomdot projector, the network cable connecting it to the
rc_visard, and a 24 V, 60 W power supply are available.

Warning: Please ensure that a 24 V, 60 W power supply is used for
  powering the

  rc_visard

   and the

  rc_randomdot

   projector together.

Note: The

  rc_randomdot

   projector is controlled via the GPIO Out 1 of the

  rc_visard

   (see

  IO and Projector Control

  ). In this tutorial, Out 1 mode refers to the

  rc_randomdot

   projector mode.

Mounting the projector

Mounting the projector is described in detail in the projector’s
manual. Please see

Installation

.

Note: For projectors sold until 12/2020, the mounting instructions
  are available on the

  Roboception website

  .

Focusing the projector

For the focus configuration, one should turn the

rc_randomdot

 projector permanently on. This can be done on the Configuration ‣
IOControl page of the Web GUI by setting the Out 1 mode to

High

.

Before focusing the projector, one needs to remove the lens protection
tube temporarily. Please unscrew the lens protection tube patently,
until the rings of the lens are visible. Now, the focus can be
adjusted by rotating one of the rings of the lens until the random dot
pattern is sharp (

Fig. 13

).


Configuring the projector brightness

For tuning the projector brightness, one should set the Out 1 mode to

ExposureAlternateActive

 on the Configuration ‣ IOControl page of the Web GUI. Next, on the

Camera

 page, the exposure must be set to

Auto

 and the

Auto Exposure Mode

 to

AdaptiveOut1

.

The text line under the live images on the

Camera

 page now shows the

Out1 Reduction

 value in percent. This value describes the reduction of brightness of
the image without projection as compared to the image with projection.
The value should be between 25% to 50%. If the value is outside this
range, the brightness of the projector should be adapted.

For adapting the projector brightness, the aperture ring of the
projector lens can be adjusted by rotating it.

After a basic adjustment, the darkest object that is possible in the
application should be placed in the field of view of the sensor. If
the dark object is not properly visible in the depth image on the

Depth Image

 page of the Web GUI, then the projector brightness must be increased,
despite high reduction values.

Selecting projector working mode

Single shot mode

If the projector is used in combination with rc_reason modules
(ItemPick, BoxPick or SilhouetteMatch), it can work in a single shot
mode. This means that it will only be activated on demand when the
module requests a new depth image.

This mode is enabled by setting the

Acquisition Mode

 to

Single + Out1

 in the

Depth Image

 page of the Web GUI.

Continuous mode

If the projector has to be used in continuous mode (stereo matching is
performed continuously without a trigger), the proper Out 1 mode in
the Web GUI's Configuration ‣ IOControl page has to be set.

By default, the Out 1 mode of the

rc_visard

 is set to

Low

, i.e. projector is off.

Typically, the user needs to select the

ExposureAlternateActive

 Out 1 mode, in which the

rc_randomdot

 projector is on only for the exposure time of every second image.
Images with projected pattern are used for computing depth images.
Images without projected pattern can be used as texture or for other
image processing modules.

Configuring the exposure

As last step, one needs to go back to the Web GUI's

Camera

 page and set the exposure time, either manually, as explained in the

Exposure and Gain Settings

 section of the

Tuning of image parameters

 tutorial, or automatically using the auto exposure. In this case, the

Auto Exposure Mode

 should be set to

AdaptiveOut1

 to avoid over exposure due to the projector.

Note: If the exposure is configured to automatic mode, when the
  projector is turned on, it may take a few seconds until the exposure
  and gain settings become stable.

More optimization tricks

In some cases, the density of the depth image can be further optimized
by changing the focus of the

rc_randomdot

 projector to introduce some blur in the projected pattern. This can
be done while looking at the

Confidence

 image in the Web GUI's

Depth Image

 page and trying to obtain as many white pixels as possible.

If the camera image includes highlights that are not reconstructed in
the depth image (

Fig. 14

), one can verify whether these highlights are introduced by the

rc_randomdot

 projector (e.g. by simply turning the projector off). In such cases,
we recommend using the

Double-Shot

 mode that is available on the

Depth Image

 page.

Alternatively, the mounting of the

rc_randomdot

 projector could be changed in order to have a different angle between
the

rc_visard

 and the projector itself. Reducing the aperture of the projector can
also help in removing highlights.

