Setting up the gripper

This tutorial shows how to set up a gripper for the

CollisionCheck

 module.

The gripper in the CollisionCheck module represents the collision
geometry of the real gripper mounted to the robot. That means, the
outer geometry of the gripper has to be modeled in a way that it
completely contains all parts of the robot's gripper, including
cables, connectors etc.

Before we start

In order to go through this tutorial, the following prerequisites
should be met:

-[ The

rc_visard

 is properly configured: ]-

The rc_visard is running the latest firmware (version 22.04) and the
rc_visard's license includes the CollisionCheck module. This can be
verified on the System ‣ Firmware & License page of the Web GUI.

Add a new gripper

In this tutorial we will show how to model the sample gripper shown in

Fig. 45

.


The easiest way to create a gripper is via the

Web GUI

's Database ‣ Grippers or Configuration ‣ CollisionCheck page. The

Grippers

 section lists all defined grippers and allows to edit and remove
them. All configured grippers are globally available to all detection
modules that can use CollisionCheck. To create a new gripper, click on
"+ Add a new gripper".

A dialog window opens that allows creating the gripper. A 3D
visualization on the left helps to check the created gripper geometry.
Initially, it only shows the robot flange with a default radius and
the flange coordinate frame.


The gripper should be modeled in a way such that each element is
completely contained in a cylinder or box.


Flange radius

The flange radius is the outer radius of the robot's flange (see

Fig. 47

). It is used during a safety check if the "check_flange" parameter is
enabled (see

Check Flange

). It is required to set the flange radius even if the "check_flange"
functionality will not be used.

Gripper elements

The gripper is built in the direction from the flange to the Tool
Center Point (TCP) and consists of a list of elements which can be
cylinders and boxes. To add a new element, click on the + symbol in
the

Elements

 section (see

Fig. 46

).

The first element of our sample gripper is a vacuum generator. We
model it as a cylinder with the same height as the vacuum generator
(0.083 m) and a radius corresponding to the maximal elongation of the
vacuum generator along the z axis of the flange coordinate frame. It
is important that the modeled collision geometry completely includes
the real gripper element to prevent undetected collisions. Since the
vacuum generator is mounted directly on the flange, we choose 'Flange'
as parent element, which is selected by default for the first element.
The position of the cylinder in the flange coordinate frame is
computed automatically when the button to automatically attach the
element to its parent is active (see

Fig. 48

). The position coordinates will in this case be 0 in x and y
coordinates and half of the element's height in z direction. The
origin of each element is located in its geometric center and the pose
of each element is defined in the origin of its parent element. The
origin of the flange element is located in the center of the flange's
bottom plane.


The second element of the gripper is a cylindrical connector part
which we will also model as a cylinder. We use the height of the
connector as height of the cylinder for the collision geometry. The
radius of the cylinder again is the maximal elongation along the
flange z axis. The parent of this cylinder is the vacuum generator and
we again use the automatic attachment (on by default) to position the
cylinder exactly below its parent element. In this case, the z
coordinate of the connector is half of the sum of the parent's and
connector's heights, because the origin of each element is located in
its geometric center and the pose of each element is defined in the
origin of its parent element (see also

Fig. 49

).


The last element of the gripper is the suction part. It will be
modeled as a box because it is elongated in one direction. We choose
the box dimensions such that the suction part is completely contained
in the box. It is important to check that the orientation of the
modeled box corresponds to the orientation of the real gripper
element. In this case, the longer side of the box is in the
x-direction of the flange coordinate frame. The parent element of the
suction part is the connector and its position is again computed
automatically using the attaching option to mount this part directly
in the center below the connector.

TCP position

Finally, we have to set the TCP position. First, we have to choose the
parent element for defining the TCP pose, which in our case is the
suction part. By default, the TCP is automatically attached to the
center of the bottom plane of the parent element. The position of the
TCP is used to decide whether a grasp is collision-free or not:
Whenever any part of the gripper would be in collision with the load
carrier while the TCP is at the grasp point, the grasp will be
detected as collision. Since suction grippers have to slightly push
against an object to grasp it, the TCP must be set to a position
inside the suction part, e.g. 2 mm. Thus, we decrease the TCP position
that results from the automatic attachment by 2mm in z direction, i.e.
from (0, 0, 0.02) to (0, 0, 0.018), so that the TCP is shifted along
the z-axis by 2 mm in negative direction.


Checking and saving the gripper

In the 3D gripper visualization, the position and orientation of the
TCP in the flange coordinate frame is displayed.

Warning: The computed pose of the TCP in the flange coordinate frame

  must be the same

   as the TCP pose defined in the robot controller to ensure that the
  gripper geometry is modeled correctly with respect to the gripper
  height.

The last step of the gripper creation is to save the gripper. It will
now be shown in the

Grippers

 section of the Web GUI's Database ‣ Grippers and Configuration ‣
CollisionCheck page and can be used in all rc_reason modules.
