Template generation

The SilhouetteMatch module requires special object templates for each
type of object to be detected. Roboception offers a template
generation service on their

website

, where the user can request these object templates.

This tutorial shows how to gather the data required to request and
generate a new object template.

Obtaining the object model

CAD model

Sending the CAD model of the part is the easiest and most
straightforward way of providing the object model. The model does not
have to include any information about inner parts, texture or
material. A 2D model of the object could also be used, as long as all
edges that should be used for matching are visible.

Note: The origin of the generated template is based on the reference
  frame of the model.


With the rc_visard

If the CAD model of the object is not available or it cannot be sent,
it is also possible to generate a template based on data captured with
an

rc_visard

.


The procedure for recording the required data consists of the
following steps:

Place the object on a flat, monochrome surface in contrasting color.

Place 3 AprilTags on the surface to form a triangle around the object.
A sample background with AprilTags can be downloaded here.

Connect the rc_visard to your PC and open the Camera page in the Web
GUI.

Place the rc_visard perpendicular to the flat surface on which the
object lies. The recommended distance of the rc_visard to the surface
depends on the rc_visard model:  approximately 300 mm for rc_visard 65
approximately 500 mm for rc_visard 160  The object should be visible
in both the left and right camera images. The distance should be
increased if the object is not fully visible at the recommended
distance.

In the Camera page, select an Exposure region around the object and
check the illumination of the scene. To get the best result, the gain
of the rc_visard should be 0 dB (see Exposure and Gain Settings) and
the object should not cast any significant shadow.    Sample scene
with proper lighting conditions. The gain value is 0 dB and there are
no shadows on the object and its vicinity.    Sample scene with too
little light. The gain value is too high.    Sample scene with too
strong direct light. The object casts shadows.

All the data necessary for the template generation can be downloaded
through the Web GUI in the

Camera

 page by clicking on the camera button below the images.

Measuring the object height

The object height is the distance from the bottom of the object to the
plane on which most of the edges that can be used for matching are
lying. This is not always the highest point! It is crucial to measure
this value correctly. The returned pose of the detected object depends
on this value.


Is the object orientation needed?

For some objects it is possible to create a simplified template that
will be detected faster. This is possible only if the object rotation
on the plane is not required for grasping and placing. Sample images
of such objects can be found below.


Recording the scene

The final step is to record images of the object in the actual
environment in which the object needs to be detected. Roboception will
use these images to test the generated template and, if necessary,
suggest changes to improve the detection performance.

For recording the scene, 3

AprilTags

 should be placed in the field of view of both cameras. If a

rc_randomdot

 projector is available, the plane calibration can also be performed
using depth data. In this case, the

rc_randomdot

 projector should be setup as described in the

Obtain dense depth images with the rc_randomdot projector

 tutorial and the Out 1 mode of the

rc_visard

 should be set to

ExposureAlternateActive

.


With the rc_visard

Use the

Download snapshot

 button in the

Camera

 page of the Web GUI.

Without the rc_visard

Note: It is possible to test the template detection only on images
  recorded with the

  rc_visard

  . If another camera is used, Roboception will only be able to check
  the scene and give some general remarks about background and
  illumination.

If the

rc_visard

 can not be used to capture the data, it is also possible to use any
other camera. In order to capture the most valuable data, the camera
should be placed in the same position where the

rc_visard

 will be mounted during production. The picture has to be sharp and
taken without using the flash, as this alters the normal lighting
conditions. If it is not possible to take a sharp picture without a
flash, it is strongly recommended to add an additional external light
source.
