Getting started

Note: Roboception's URCap is working with software 3.12.0 or newer
  for CB series, and 5.6.0 or newer for E-series. In case you are
  running an older software version, please update your controller
  (files can be downloaded from the UR website:

  https://www.universal-robots.com/download/

  )

Note: Roboception's URCap is internally communicating with the
  daemon on port 49285. In the unlikely event that it causes a
  conflict with a URCap from a different vendor, please contact
  Roboception support.

Roboception's ItemPick Bundle for Universal Robots contains everything
required to calibrate the robot and the

rc_visard

 , and start your first program. The bundle is sold in two versions:
with or without a RandomDot Projector.

The basic bundle consists of:

rc_visard 160 monochrome

rc_reason ItemPick Module

Small Calibration-Grid with pre-drilled mounting holes

Connectivity Kit with 5m network cable and 30W power supply

The kit including the projector consists of:

rc_visard 160 monochrome

rc_reason ItemPick Module

Small Calibration-Grid with pre-drilled mounting holes

Connectivity Kit with 5m network cable and 60W power supply

RandomDot Projector

rc_reason IOControl Module

Software installation

Download the URCap from Roboception's download page

Copy the URCap file to a USB flash drive

Insert the USB drive into the USB port of the teach pendant or robot
controller

On the Welcome screen of the PolyScope Robot User Interface press the
Setup Robot button first and then press the URCaps Setup button

Click on the + button to install a new URCap application

Navigate to the rc_visard_urcap file by clicking on your USB drive and
selecting it. Confirm the selection by clicking on Open

Reboot the controller

After rebooting the robot, the rc_visard_urcap application should be
marked by a green tick in the URCaps Setup window (see

Fig. 47

).


Connect the sensor

You can connect the

rc_visard

 directly to the ethernet port of the Universal Robot controller, or
through a network switch. During setup, it is recommended to establish
a connection via switch, since some parts of the

rc_visard

 interface are not fully duplicated in URCap and are only available
through the Web GUI. It might be necessary to use an external PC to
configure the

rc_visard

 or its software modules.

Detailed instructions about network setup can be found in

Connecting and configuring rc_visard to a network

 tutorial.

Connect the rc_visard to the same network as the robot controller

Enable networking in PolyScope

In the installation node, set the IP address of the rc_visard

Note: A Link-Local address might change after reboot, therefore, we
  recommended assigning a static IP address or using a DHCP server for
  network configuration.

