ItemPick

This tutorial shows how to pick an object with the ItemPick module and
Roboception’s URCap.

Before we start

This tutorials assumes that the tutorial

Getting started with ItemPick

 has been completed, and the valid hand eye calibration has been
stored on the

rc_visard

 as described in

Hand Eye Calibration

.

rc_visard ItemPick application


1. Teach poses

Three waypoints have to be taught before the application can be run:
observe_pose, drop_pose and approach_pose. Their position in the
workspace depends on the cell layout and ItemPick settings used to
compute grasps.

Depending on the scenario, there are different requirements for the
robot pose at the waypoints and during movement between them:

If no load carrier or region of interest is being used, the robot must
be completely outside the field of view of the camera

If a load carrier is used during the detection, the robot must not
occlude the load carrier and the items to be grasped

If the region of interest is used during the detection, the robot must
be completely outside the region of interest and must not occlude the
items that should be grasped


2. Set ItemPick parameters

In this node the parameters for grasp computation are defined. It is
also possible to test and check the results of the last grasp
computation.

Note: The global parameters can only be set from the Web GUI.


Suction surface

These parameters defines the size of the suction cups that will be
used to grasp an object.

Load carrier

Defines which load carrier should be used during grasp calculation.
The load carrier has to be defined earlier, as described in

Configuring the load carrier

.

Region of interest

Defines which region of interest should be used during grasp
calculation. The region of interest has to be defined prior.

Use Projector

This field is only active if there is valid IOControl license on the

rc_visard

 . If this field is checked, the RandomDot Projector will be enabled
for the duration of the ItemPick grasp computation.

3. Choose pick strategy

This step will affect the structure of the generated program. There
are three strategies to choose from:

Do not check for part - after each pick the drop part procedure is
performed

Check for part, retry if failed - after each pick, part status is
checked. If the part is not picked, the next pick is performed

Check for part, no retry- after each pick, part status is checked. If
the part is not picked, the robot is moving to the observe position
and new ItemPick detection is triggered


4. Define pick procedure

The pick procedure consists of following steps:

Getting next pick pose

Calculating the pick orientation depending on the chosen option

Moving to pre pick position with tool speed as defined in the ‘Pre
pick speed’ variable and tool acceleration as defined in the ‘Pre pick
acc’ variable.

Moving to pick position with tool speed as defined in the ‘Pick speed’
variable and tool acceleration of 500 mm/s2.

Picking part

Moving to post pick position (same as pre pick) with speed as defined
in the ‘Pre pick speed’ variable and acceleration as defined in the
‘Pre pick acc’ variable

Note: It is not guarantied that the pick and pre-pick poses are
  collision free


Pre pick distance

Pre pick distance is an offset in -Z direction of the TCP between pick
pose and pre pick pose.

Pick speed

Speed during linear movement between pre/post pick positions and pick
position.

Pre pick speed

Speed during linear movement to pre pick position.

Pre pick acc

Acceleration during linear movement to pre pick position.

Pick approach angle

With the

‘Pick approach angle’

 drop down menu it is possible to change the strategy of calculating
the pick position angle. There are three different options to choose
from:

ItemPick the complete orientation computed by ItemPick module is used

Itempick (only z-axis) only the orientation around z axis of the TCP
is used (useful for non-symetrical grippers)

Keep orientation orientation from ItemPick is ignored, instead the
orientation of the last waypoint is used

Pre pick distance

Pre pick distance is an offset in -Z direction of the TCP between pick
pose and pre pick pose.

5. Set gripper control

It is necessary to specify how the gripper is working. If the

Do not check for part

 option has been chosen at the beginning it is only necessary to
define the pick and drop behavior in the

Drop part

 and

Pick part

 folders. Otherwise it is also necessary to finish the

if

 statement with a condition that indicates that the part is grasped.
